# Advert for Session 05

Just a heads-up, next Wednesday will be the 5th session of OOP via Python, the mini-series of workshops that lifts the carpet on the Tao of Object-Orientation. Think The Matrix with even slower bullets and loads more plastic raincoats than the original. Yeah ok, it's nothing like that.

Each week we cover an aspect of OOP that you don't find in the textbooks. Last week we covered core vs non-core methods and in the previous session we touched on the problem of deep state and how this affects everyday programming. Having laid these additional foundations, this coming week we will step up a gear to develop an uncanny sixth sense that I call X-ray Vision. With this newfound ability, code jumps into 3D perspective where new objects will spontaneously emerge from the morass to cut striking, futuristic silhouettes against the jungle skyline. And unlike in the movies, this paranormal skill does not involve being thrown into the heart of an exploding nuclear power station or being caught in an unexpected burst of cosmic rays. (Actually it's a bit harder work than those options but less errrr implausible.)

The ability to refactor code through the introduction and/or elimination of classes is a foundational skill that hinges on the ability to see appropriate opportunities to do so. There's a lot of ground to cover here so I have split it into two sessions of which this will be the first. Although the sessions do build on top of each other, we recap the previous session so that you can jump right in on any session and follow-along. And, joking aside, for most devs this will be a genuinely new and helpful way of looking at how classes and procedural code inter-relate and pretty much essential for working on successful, professional products.